+++
title = "The Little Things"
date = 2021-11-28

[taxonomies]
tags = ["personal"]
categories = ["life", "covid"]
+++

The dozens of predictions that economists have been making over the last two
years centers around this idea that once everything returns to a certain level
of *normal* - probably better to use safe instead of normal but I'm sure we all
agree *normal* means something different than it used to - consumers are going
to start splurging on all the money they have been saving up. Personally, even
if this turns out to be the case eventually, I think this saga of our
lives really has given us enjoyment in the little things.

<!-- more -->

## Freedom from it all

I need to preface this next section with the caveat that I have been incredibly
fortunate to have stayed employed throughout the pandemic and others have not
been so lucky. My perspective therefore may not come across as worth reading
about or grounded in reality for a variety of other circumstances but I
digress.

Being able to work remotely essentially for two years now has given me the
perspective that there aren't many things that I actually need on a day to day
basis to make me happy. It has shifted my habits on shopping in general,
forcing me to consider what I will have to look at day in and day out. This
consideration is of course made easier by the necessary steps that we need to
take in order to reduce carbon emissions by stopping the seemingly limitless
consumption of soon to be trash.

Shifting desires from material goods to experiences has also helped me drop the
idea that keeping up with the Jones' is something that should be strived for. I
don't think spending on whatever you want on its own is wrong to do (it's
completely one's own perogative to do so), but when it ties directly with so
many of the larger environmental issues, it's something that I personally have
found something that we should limit as much as we can. I am not going to
re-hash these things on my little soapbox. This post is only meant to talk
about where I am and what has worked for me the last two years.

## Friends, Family and Hobbies

Spending time with friends, shooting the shit, going on walks, whatever floats
yor boat, has been something that I have come to value the most as it was the
thing that was taken away from all of us (the responsible ones) for such a long
time. Finding hobbies that don't cost a ton are also really nice to strive for
as you can easily make more friends doing them (if you want).

I probably sound like a quintessential millenneal but there is more to life
than killing yourself to get more money. (This again is a privileged
perspective and I don't mean to offend anyone who can't find financial comfort.
I hope that you do). Long story short is to spend time with friends and family
(if you like them) and try to find some fun hobbies to pass the time instead of
consuming consuming consuming.

Also, a friendly reminder to call your parents and grandparents and see how
their doing. At least for me, living without the potential regret of having
missed out on conversations is something that gives me peace of mind.

## Mike's Tips for A Non-Essential Purchase

If you do want to buy something you know you don't need but still sounds fun
that is fine! These are the critieria I myself tend to set for myself, and the
result has been that I can't think of anything that I have purchased recently
that I haven't used extensively or regretted.

1. Put off a purchase for two weeks before proceeding with checkout This alone
   will help tremendously with impulse purchases.

2. More expensive (only if for a reason not brand alone), well made and
   multi-purpose are better than cheap and specialised. I'll just say here that
   chef's have a few great knives and do not have a slapchop in their kitchen.
   Get things that can be used for all kinds of things.

3. Use money that has already been freed up from savings and utilities. I have
   a guilt free fund that I use exclusively for these kind of things so that I
   never stress about putting myself in a touch financial position if things go
   sour.
