+++
title = "On Gifts"
date = 2023-06-20

[taxonomies]
tags = ["gifts", "life"]
categories = ["gifts"]
+++

Buying gifts for someone - whether it be for a friend,
partner, family member, yourself - feels like it has now
been ruined by how much thought you have put into it, but not
in the way that you might think. The less researched and more
spur of the moment the better.

<!-- more -->

The peer pressure of getting the right gift can lead you down
all kinds of rabbit holes online, review sites, meta-review sites,
personal testimonies on Reddit or Twitter. The number of conflicting
opinions on things makes things so dreadfully painful to make
a decision on which one to choose. And even if you do pick something
that has a clear "winner" similarly makes it feel like you run
the risk of either getting someone something they already have (because
everyone reads the same universal opinion on something).

Without raising discussions around the hidden marketing campaigns littered
throughout our daily life driving us all to converge on deciding
that we all need a stainless steel insulated canteen
(they are great to be fair but still), I feel that
I should articulate what I think the best kind of gifts are.

## Reject the Engine, Use Your Brain

In complete contrast to the "drip" culture plaguing the youth and uber wealthy
who have nothing else to spend their money on. I would prefer receiving a t-shirt
from a local pizza place that doesn't have an online store as a gift than getting
a Balenciaga shoe, or Hermès bag. I would much prefer a decal sticker from a local
surf shop (I don't even surf) that I can stick on my laptop than I would from
getting that top rated book that was talked about all over GoodReads and Reddit for
"really making me think".

The reasons come down to a few things:

1. It's cheaper so there is less of a guilt trip to reciprocate accordingly
   [_"But I bought Ryan an iPod!"_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=19ulSNSRKyU)
2. It's local, tied to somewhere or something you've done or experienced.
3. It isn't (for books they can be good gifts but they should really be talked
   about first) a chore/task to actually do it. Like a book of sudoku puzzles or
   a rubik's cube.
4. If you picked it up in person, you've saved the planet ;) so there is no
   cost for delivery.

When people put too much research into getting the _best possible_ gift for someone
in their price range, if its the first thing that comes up in a google search about
"Best 15 gifts for the 30 going on 13 year olds", I will appreciate that you thought
about me in order to expend the energy to do the research to get something quality
or recommended, but it doesn't strike me as any different than getting someone
a card from Hallmark with the message already written inside. That is if it is
a random generic gift. If you knew I loved the LA Clippers and you got me some shorts
for their annual city jerseys that doesn't quite count as you already knew that about
me so it's fair game. The point is largely that it should be tied to the person or
yourself such that it reminds the receiver of you _or_ slots into something you
know they'd like but isn't something that shows up on SSO optimised websites.

The clue to something being a good gift is that it is something
that no one else would stumble upon with 3500 5 star reviews online.
It should be something that makes people think; what
is that? If people say where can I get that, I should be be able to say.

> "Fuck knows... got it as a gift."
